UFC fighters to train FBI agents at Quantico
Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) athletes will be training agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) this week, both organisations say.
Current and former UFC fighters will visit the FBI Special Agent Academy in Quantico, Virginia, this weekend for a "training seminar" for senior FBI staff and students.
FBI Director Kash Patel called it "a tremendous opportunity" for agents "to learn and train with some of the greatest athletes on earth", adding that it will help the agency "be even better prepared to protect the American people".
Donald Trump, who has attended UFC fights while president, is planning to host an event with the brand at the White House in June.
UFC CEO Dana White said in a statement that the organisation is "proud to support the FBI in strengthening their defense techniques".
The FBI said the fighters will offer "insight into how they train for competition" and as demonstrate specific techniques and tactics.
White's friendship with the president dates back to the early 2000s when Trump hosted some of the first ever UFC events at his business properties.
White said UFC fighters "are some of the baddest men and women on the planet and they are heading to Quantico to train the best FBI agents in mixed martial arts".
The athletes heading to Quantico include interim UFC lightweight champion Justin Gaethe, the first UFC BMF champion Jorge Masvidal, former UFC middleweight champion Chris Weidman, former UFC strawweight title challenger Claudia Gadelha, former UFC lightweight title challenger Michael Chandler, top UFC flyweight contender Manel Kape and mixed martial arts athlete Renzo Gracie. Matchmaker Mick Maynard will also be in attendance.
The BBC has contacted the FBI for further comment.
Trump announced plans last year for this summer's unprecedented UFC show at the White House to mark 250 years since the US Declaration of Independence.
While the UFC has not confirmed its full plans for the June event, White has said he expects around 5,000 spectators for the show to take place thein an octagon on the South Lawn, along with around 80,000 fans watching at a nearby park in Washington.
Trump has said the fights on the card will be the "biggest they've ever had".